.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _users-manual:

Users Manual
============

.. only:: html

    This chapter describes how to use the extension from a user point of view.


.. _users-manual-fields:

Available fields
----------------


.. table:: Overview of available fields in FAL

   =======================  ======================================  =======================================
   Field                    Title                                   Type
   =======================  ======================================  =======================================
   title                    Title                                   string
   width                    Width                                   integer
   height                   Height                                  integer
   `alternative`_           Alternative text or headline            string
   `description`_           Description                             string
   visible                  Visible                                 0 or 1
   status                   Status                                  - 1 (OK)
                                                                    - 2 (Pending)
                                                                    - 3 (Under review)
   `keywords`_              Keywords                                comma-separated list of strings
   caption                  Caption                                 string
   creator_tool             Creator tool                            string
   download_name            Download name                           string
   creator                  Creator                                 string
   publisher                Publisher                               string
   source                   Source                                  string
   `location_country`_      Country                                 string
   `location_region`_       Region                                  string
   `location_city`_         City                                    string
   latitude                 GPS latitude                            floating point
   longitude                GPS longitude                           floating point
   altitude                 GPS altitude                            integer (meters)
   ranking                  Ranking / Rating                        integer (0-5)
   content_creation         Content creation date                   integer (timestamp)
   content_modification     Content modification date               integer (timestamp)
   note                     Note                                    string
   unit                     Unit (for width/height)                 - "px" - pixels
                                                                    - "cm" - centimeters
                                                                    - "in" - inches
                                                                    - "mm" - millimeters
                                                                    - "m" - meters
                                                                    - "p" - pica (1 pica = 12 points)
                                                                    - "pt" - points (1 inch = 72 points)
   duration                 Duration of the movie/sound             integer (number of seconds)
   color_space              Color space                             - "RGB"
                                                                    - "sRGB"
                                                                    - "CMYK"
                                                                    - "CMY"
                                                                    - "YUV"
                                                                    - "grey"
                                                                    - "indx" (indexed)
   pages                    Number of pages                         integer
   language                 Language of the file                    string
   =======================  ======================================  =======================================


Field details
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. only:: html

   .. contents::
       :local:
       :depth: 2


Standard fields
"""""""""""""""

.. _users-manual-fields-alternative:

alternative
```````````

A headline is a brief publishable synopsis or summary of the contents of the
photograph. Like a news story, the Headline should grab attention, and telegraph
the content of the image to the audience. Headlines need to be succinct. leave
the supporting narrative for the `Description <description>`_ field. Do not,
however, confuse the Headline term with the Title term.


.. _users-manual-fields-description:

description
```````````

The Description field, often referred to as a "caption" is used to describe the
who, what (and possibly where and when) and why of what is happening in the
photograph. If there is a person or people in the image, this caption might
include their names, and/or their role in the action that is taking place. If
the image is of a location, then it should give information regarding the
location. Don't forget to also include this same "geographical" information in
the `Geographical fields`_. The amount of detail you include will depend on the
image and whether the image is documentary or conceptual. Typically, editorial
images come with complete caption text, while advertising images may not.


.. _users-manual-fields-keywords:

keywords
````````

Enter keywords (terms or phrases) used to express the subject of the content
seen in the photograph. Keywords may be free text (i.e. they are not required to
be taken from a controlled vocabulary). You may enter any number of keywords,
terms or phrases into this field, simply separate them with a comma or
semi-colon.


.. _users-manual-fields-geo:

Geographical fields
"""""""""""""""""""

According to the
`IPTC standards <https://www.iptc.org/std/photometadata/documentation/IPTC-CS5-FileInfo-UserGuide_6.pdf>`__,
the descriptions of geographic fields contained within the IPTC Core Image
section did not clearly distinguish whether the value should be the actual
location shown in the image, or the location where the photo was taken. Because
most GPS systems, by default, indicate where the photographer was standing, the
IPTC standard is now suggesting to use the fields City, Region and Country for
the location "shown" in the image, whereas the latitude and longitude will
logically be related to the position the photographer was standing.


.. _users-manual-fields-location-country:

location_country
````````````````

Enter the full name of the country pictured in the photograph. This field is at
the first level of a top-down geographical hierarchy. The full name should be
expressed as a verbal name and not as an ISO country code.



.. _users-manual-fields-location-region:

location_region
```````````````

Enter the name of the subregion of a country -- usually referred to as either a
State or Province -- that is pictured in the image. Since the abbreviation for a
State or Province may be unknown to those viewing your metadata internationally,
consider using the full spelling of the name. Province/State is a the second
level of a top-down geographical hierarchy.


.. _users-manual-fields-location-city:

location_city
`````````````

Enter the name of the city that is pictured in the image. If there is no city,
consider using the name of the location shown in the image. This name could be
the name of a specific area within a city (Manhattan) or the name of a
well-known location (Pyramides of Giza) or (natural) monument outside a city
(Grand Canyon). City is at the third level of a top-down geographical hierarchy.
